docs/ntools/nbuild.md, before:

- [Usage](#usage)
- [nbuild.targets](#nbuildtargets)
- [common.targets](#commontargets)
- [Examples](#examples)
---

# Nbuild

 - `Nbuild` (`nb.exe`) is a wrapper for [MSBuild](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild) that simplifies building solutions and provides a way to define and run custom targets.
 - `Nb.exe` is also a command line tool that installs the development tools and run times required to build and test any solution.
       - To build a target type `Nb.exe [Target Name]`
      - The list of targets is generated by running the `Nb.exe targets` command.
  - `Nb.exe` expects the [nbuild.targets](#nbuildtargets) file to be present in the solution folder.

Below is a full list of options that can be used with `Nb.exe`:
### Usage
```cmd
 Nb.exe command [-json value] [-v value] [-tag value] [-buildtype value]
  - command   : Specifies the command to execute.
list                    -> Lists apps specified in the -json option.
         install                 -> Downloads and installs apps specified in the -json option (requires admin privileges).
         uninstall               -> Uninstalls apps specified in the -json option (requires admin privileges).
         download                -> Downloads tools or apps listed in the -json option (requires admin privileges).
         targets                 -> Lists available build targets and saves them in the targets.md file.
         path                    -> Displays the environment PATH variable for the local machine.
         git_info                -> Displays the current git information for the local repository.
         git_settag              -> Sets the specified tag using the -tag option.
         git_autotag             -> Sets the next tag based on the build type: STAGE or PROD.
         git_push_autotag        -> Sets the next tag based on the build type and pushes to the remote repository.
         git_branch              -> Displays the current git branch in the local repository.
         git_clone               -> Clones the specified Git repository using the -url option.
         git_deletetag           -> Deletes the specified tag using the -tag option.
         release_create          -> Creates a GitHub release. Requires -repo, -tag, -branch, and -file options.
         pre_release_create      -> Creates a GitHub pre-release. Requires -repo, -tag, -branch, and -file options.
         release_download        -> Downloads a specific asset from a GitHub release. Requires -repo, -tag, and -path (optional, defaults to current directory).
         ----
 (one of list,install,uninstall,download,targets,path,git_info,git_settag,git_autotag,git_push_autotag,git_branch,git_clone,git_deletetag, required)
  - json      : Specifies the JSON file that holds the list of apps. Only valid for the install, download, and list commands.
         - By default, the -json option points to the ntools deployment folder: $(ProgramFiles)\build\ntools.json.
         Sample JSON file: https://github.com/naz-hage/ntools/blob/main/dev-setup/ntools.json
          (string, default=$(ProgramFiles)\nbuild\ntools.json)
  - v         : Optional parameter which sets the console output verbose level
         ----
         - if no command line options are specified with the -v option , i.e.: 'Nb.exe stage -v true`
           `Nb` will run an MSbuild target `stage` defined in a `nbuild.targets` file which present in the solution folder.
           Run `Nb.exe Targets` to list the available targets.
         -v Possible Values: (true or false, default=False)
  - tag       : Specifies the tag used for git_settag and git_deletetag commands. (string, default=)
    - path      : Specifies the path used for git_clone and release commands. If not specified, the current directory will be used.
         for release commands, it must be an absolute path (string, default=)
  - buildtype : Specifies the build type used for git_autotag and git_push_autotag commands. Possible values: stage, prod. (string, default=)
  - url       : Specifies the Git repository URL used for git_clone command. (string, default=)
  - repo      : Specifies the Git repository in the format any of the following formats:
         repoName  (UserName is declared the `OWNER` environment variable)
         userName/repoName
         https://github.com/userName/repoName (Full URL to the repository on GitHub). This is applicable to all commands. (string, default=)
  - branch    : Specifies the branch name. Applicable for release_create, pre_release_create commands (string, default=main)
  - file      : Specifies the asset file name. Must include full path. Applicable for release_create, pre_release_create commands (string, default=)
```

**If the -json option is not specified, the default json file `$(ProgramFiles)\Nbuild\NTools.json` is used**. 

### nbuild.targets
See [nbuild.targets](../setup.md#nbuildtargets) for more information on how to create a `nbuild.targets` file.
                    
### common.targets
- The `common.targets` file includes all the defaults targets needed to build, test and deploy a solution.  The `common.targets` file is located in the `$(ProgramFiles)\Nbuild` folder.  The `nbuild.targets` file in the solution folder imports the `common.targets` file

Below is list of common targets that are defined in the `common.targets` file

| **Target Name** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| PROPERTIES          | Common properties that will be used by all targets |
| CLEAN               | Clean up the project and artifacts folder |
| INSTALL_DEP         | Install dependencies |
| TELEMETRY_OPT_OUT   | Opt out of the DOTNET_CLI_TELEMETRY_OPTOUT - move to common |
| STAGE             | Create a stage package for testing |
| PROD          | Create a production package for release |
| STAGE_DEPLOY      | Create a stage package and deploy for testing |
| PROD_DEPLOY   | Create a production package and deploy for release |
| SOLUTION            | Build the solution Release configuration  using dotnet build |
| SOLUTION_MSBUILD    | Build the solution Release configuration  using MSBuild |
| PACKAGE             | Create a package for the solution default is a zip file of all artifacts |
| COPY_ARTIFACTS      | Save the artifacts to the artifacts folder |
| DEPLOY              | Deploy the package. default is to extract artifacts into DeploymentProperty folder |
| TEST                | Run all tests using dotnet test in Release mode |
| TEST_DEBUG          | Run all tests using dotnet test in Debug mode |
| IS_ADMIN            | Check if current process is running in admin mode AdminCheckExitCode property is set |
| SingleProject       | Example how to build a single project |
| HandleError         | Error handling placeholder |

### Examples

This section provides examples of how to use the `nb.exe` command line tool. The examples assume that you are running a powershell terminal.

## 1. List Installed Applications
```cmd
nb.exe list -json $env:ProgramFiles\tools.json
```
Lists all applications specified in the provided JSON file.

## 2. Install Applications
```cmd
nb.exe install -json $env:ProgramFiles\tools.json
```
Downloads and installs applications specified in the JSON file (requires admin privileges). This checks if the application is already installed and if not it will install it.
If the application is already installed, it will skip the installation.

## 3. Display Git Information
```cmd
nb.exe git_info
```
Displays the current Git branch and tag information for the local repository.

## 4. Run a Build Target
```cmd
nb.exe stage -v true
```
Runs the `stage` target defined in the nbuild.targets file with verbose output enabled.

## 5. List nbuild targets
```cmd
nb.exe targets
```
Lists all available build targets defined in the nbuild.targets file and saves them in the targets.md file.

## 6. Set a Specific Git Tag
```cmd
nb.exe git_settag -tag 1.0.0
```
Sets the specified Git tag (`1.0.0`) in the local repository.

## 7. Automatically Set the Next Git Tag
```cmd
nb.exe git_autotag -buildtype stage
```
Automatically generates and sets the next Git tag based on the specified build type (`stage` or `prod`).

## 8. Push the Next Git Tag to Remote
```cmd
nb.exe git_push_autotag -buildtype prod
```
Automatically generates the next Git tag based on the specified build type (`prod`) and pushes it to the remote repository.

## 9. Display the Current Git Branch
```cmd
nb.exe git_branch
```
Displays the current Git branch in the local repository.

## 10. Clone a Git Repository
```cmd
nb.exe git_clone -url https://github.com/example/repo -path C:\Projects
```
Clones the specified Git repository (`https://github.com/example/repo`) into the specified path (`C:\Projects`).

## 11. Delete a Specific Tag
```cmd
nb.exe git_deletetag -tag 1.0.0 -v true
```

## 12. Creating a Release
To create a release for the repository `my-repo` with the tag `1.0.0`, branch `main`, and an asset located at `C:\Releases\1.0.0.zip`, you would use the following command:

```batch
nb.exe release_create -repo userName/my-repo -tag 1.0.0 -branch main -file C:\Releases\1.1.0.zip
```

## 13. Creating a Pre-Release
To create a pre-release for the repository `my-repo` with the tag `1.0.0`, branch `main`, and an asset located at `C:\Releases\1.0.0.zip`, you would use the following command:

```batch
nb.exe pre_release_create -repo userName/my-repo -tag 1.0.0 -branch main -file C:\Releases\1.1.0.zip
```

## 14. Downloading an Asset
To download an asset from the release with the tag `1.0.0` in the repository `my-repo` to the path `C:\Downloads`:

```batch
nb.exe release_download -repo userName/my-repo -tag 1.0.0 -path C:\Downloads
```
An asset named 1.0.0.zip will be downloaded to the specified path if it exists in the release.

## 15. Creating a Release with Full GitHub URL
To create a release for the repository `my-repo` with the tag `1.0.0`, branch `main`, and an asset located at `C:\Releases\1.0.0.zip`, using the full GitHub URL:

```batch
nb.exe release_create -repo https://github.com/userName/my-repo -tag 1.0.0 -branch main -file C:\Releases\1.0.0.zip
```

## 16. Downloading an Asset with Full GitHub URL
To download an asset from the release with the tag `1.0.0` in the repository `my-repo` to the path `C:\Downloads`, using the full GitHub URL:

```batch
nb.exe release_download -repo https://github.com/userName/my-repo -tag 1.0.0 -path C:\Downloads
```
An asset named `1.0.0.zip` will be downloaded to the specified path if it exists in the release.

Commit message:

Update nbuild command usage in docs

docs/ntools/nbuild.md, after:

- [Usage](#usage)
- [nbuild.targets](#nbuildtargets)
- [common.targets](#commontargets)
- [Examples](#examples)
---

# Nbuild

 - `Nbuild` (`nb.exe`) is a wrapper for [MSBuild](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild) that simplifies building solutions and provides a way to define and run custom targets.
 - `Nb.exe` is also a command line tool that installs the development tools and run times required to build and test any solution.
       - To build a target type `Nb.exe [Target Name]`
      - The list of targets is generated by running the `Nb.exe targets` command.
  - `Nb.exe` expects the [nbuild.targets](#nbuildtargets) file to be present in the solution folder.

Below is a full list of options that can be used with `Nb.exe`:
### Usage
```cmd
 Nb.exe command [-json value] [-v value] [-url value] [-tag value] [-path value] [-buildtype value] [-repo value] [-branch value] [-file value]
  - command   : Specifies the command to execute.
         list                    -> Lists apps specified in the -json option.
         install                 -> Downloads and installs apps specified in the -json option (requires admin privileges).
         uninstall               -> Uninstalls apps specified in the -json option (requires admin privileges).
         download                -> Downloads tools or apps listed in the -json option (requires admin privileges).
         targets                 -> Lists available build targets and saves them in the targets.md file.
         path                    -> Displays the environment PATH variable for the local machine.
         git_info                -> Displays the current git information for the local repository.
         git_settag              -> Sets the specified tag using the -tag option.
         git_autotag             -> Sets the next tag based on the build type: STAGE or PROD.
         git_push_autotag        -> Sets the next tag based on the build type and pushes to the remote repository.
         git_branch              -> Displays the current git branch in the local repository.
         git_clone               -> Clones the specified Git repository using the -url option.
         git_deletetag           -> Deletes the specified tag using the -tag option.
         release_create          -> Creates a GitHub release. Requires -repo, -tag, -branch, and -file options.
         pre_release_create      -> Creates a GitHub pre-release. Requires -repo, -tag, -branch, and -file options.
         release_download        -> Downloads a specific asset from a GitHub release. Requires -repo, -tag, and -path (optional, defaults to current directory).
         ----
          The nbuild.exe can also execute targets defined in an nbuild.targets file if one       exists in the current folder.
         To execute a target defined in nbuild.targets, simply use its name as the command.
         For example, if nbuild.targets defines a target named 'build', you can run it    with: `nb.exe build`
 (one of list,install,uninstall,download,targets,path,git_info,git_settag,git_autotag,git_push_autotag,git_branch,git_clone,git_deletetag,release_create,pre_release_create,release_download, required)
  - json      : Specifies the JSON file that holds the list of apps. Only valid for the install, download, and list commands.
         - By default, the -json option points to the ntools deployment folder: $(ProgramFiles)\build\ntools.json.
         Sample JSON file: https://github.com/naz-hage/ntools/blob/main/dev-setup/ntools.json
          (string, default=$(ProgramFiles)\nbuild\ntools.json)
  - v         : Optional parameter which sets the console output verbose level
         ----
         - if no command line options are specified with the -v option , i.e.: 'Nb.exe stage -v true`
           `Nb` will run an MSbuild target `stage` defined in a `nbuild.targets` file which present in the solution folder.
           Run `Nb.exe Targets` to list the available targets.
         -v Possible Values: (true or false, default=False)
  - url       : Specifies the Git repository URL. (string, default=)
  - tag       : Specifies the tag used for git_settag and git_deletetag commands. (string, default=)
  - path      : Specifies the path used for git_clone, pre_release_create and release_create commands. If not specified, the current directory will be used.
         for pre_release_create and release_create commands, it must be an absolute path (string, default=)
  - buildtype : Specifies the build type used for git_autotag and git_push_autotag commands. Possible values: STAGE, PROD. (string, default=)
  - repo      : Specifies the Git repository in the format any of the following formats:
         repoName  (UserName is declared the `OWNER` environment variable)
         userName/repoName
         https://github.com/userName/repoName (Full URL to the repository on GitHub). This is applicable to release_create, pre_release_create and release_download commands. (string, default=)
  - branch    : Specifies the branch name. Applicable for release_create, pre_release_create commands (string, default=main)
  - file      : Specifies the asset file name. Must include full path. Applicable for release_create, pre_release_create commands (string, default=)
```

**If the -json option is not specified, the default json file `$(ProgramFiles)\Nbuild\NTools.json` is used**. 

### nbuild.targets
See [nbuild.targets](../setup.md#nbuildtargets) for more information on how to create a `nbuild.targets` file.
                    
### common.targets
- The `common.targets` file includes all the defaults targets needed to build, test and deploy a solution.  The `common.targets` file is located in the `$(ProgramFiles)\Nbuild` folder.  The `nbuild.targets` file in the solution folder imports the `common.targets` file

Below is list of common targets that are defined in the `common.targets` file

| **Target Name** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| PROPERTIES          | Common properties that will be used by all targets |
| CLEAN               | Clean up the project and artifacts folder |
| INSTALL_DEP         | Install dependencies |
| TELEMETRY_OPT_OUT   | Opt out of the DOTNET_CLI_TELEMETRY_OPTOUT - move to common |
| STAGE             | Create a stage package for testing |
| PROD          | Create a production package for release |
| STAGE_DEPLOY      | Create a stage package and deploy for testing |
| PROD_DEPLOY   | Create a production package and deploy for release |
| SOLUTION            | Build the solution Release configuration  using dotnet build |
| SOLUTION_MSBUILD    | Build the solution Release configuration  using MSBuild |
| PACKAGE             | Create a package for the solution default is a zip file of all artifacts |
| COPY_ARTIFACTS      | Save the artifacts to the artifacts folder |
| DEPLOY              | Deploy the package. default is to extract artifacts into DeploymentProperty folder |
| TEST                | Run all tests using dotnet test in Release mode |
| TEST_DEBUG          | Run all tests using dotnet test in Debug mode |
| IS_ADMIN            | Check if current process is running in admin mode AdminCheckExitCode property is set |
| SingleProject       | Example how to build a single project |
| HandleError         | Error handling placeholder |

### Examples

This section provides examples of how to use the `nb.exe` command line tool. The examples assume that you are running a powershell terminal.

## 1. List Installed Applications
```cmd
nb.exe list -json $env:ProgramFiles\tools.json
```
Lists all applications specified in the provided JSON file.

## 2. Install Applications
```cmd
nb.exe install -json $env:ProgramFiles\tools.json
```
Downloads and installs applications specified in the JSON file (requires admin privileges). This checks if the application is already installed and if not it will install it.
If the application is already installed, it will skip the installation.

## 3. Display Git Information
```cmd
nb.exe git_info
```
Displays the current Git branch and tag information for the local repository.

## 4. Run a Build Target
```cmd
nb.exe stage -v true
```
Runs the `stage` target defined in the nbuild.targets file with verbose output enabled.

## 5. List nbuild targets
```cmd
nb.exe targets
```
Lists all available build targets defined in the nbuild.targets file and saves them in the targets.md file.

## 6. Set a Specific Git Tag
```cmd
nb.exe git_settag -tag 1.0.0
```
Sets the specified Git tag (`1.0.0`) in the local repository.

## 7. Automatically Set the Next Git Tag
```cmd
nb.exe git_autotag -buildtype stage
```
Automatically generates and sets the next Git tag based on the specified build type (`stage` or `prod`).

## 8. Push the Next Git Tag to Remote
```cmd
nb.exe git_push_autotag -buildtype prod
```
Automatically generates the next Git tag based on the specified build type (`prod`) and pushes it to the remote repository.

## 9. Display the Current Git Branch
```cmd
nb.exe git_branch
```
Displays the current Git branch in the local repository.

## 10. Clone a Git Repository
```cmd
nb.exe git_clone -url https://github.com/example/repo -path C:\Projects
```
Clones the specified Git repository (`https://github.com/example/repo`) into the specified path (`C:\Projects`).

## 11. Delete a Specific Tag
```cmd
nb.exe git_deletetag -tag 1.0.0 -v true
```

## 12. Creating a Release
To create a release for the repository `my-repo` with the tag `1.0.0`, branch `main`, and an asset located at `C:\Releases\1.0.0.zip`, you would use the following command:

```batch
nb.exe release_create -repo userName/my-repo -tag 1.0.0 -branch main -file C:\Releases\1.1.0.zip
```

## 13. Creating a Pre-Release
To create a pre-release for the repository `my-repo` with the tag `1.0.0`, branch `main`, and an asset located at `C:\Releases\1.0.0.zip`, you would use the following command:

```batch
nb.exe pre_release_create -repo userName/my-repo -tag 1.0.0 -branch main -file C:\Releases\1.1.0.zip
```

## 14. Downloading an Asset
To download an asset from the release with the tag `1.0.0` in the repository `my-repo` to the path `C:\Downloads`:

```batch
nb.exe release_download -repo userName/my-repo -tag 1.0.0 -path C:\Downloads
```
An asset named 1.0.0.zip will be downloaded to the specified path if it exists in the release.

## 15. Creating a Release with Full GitHub URL
To create a release for the repository `my-repo` with the tag `1.0.0`, branch `main`, and an asset located at `C:\Releases\1.0.0.zip`, using the full GitHub URL:

```batch
nb.exe release_create -repo https://github.com/userName/my-repo -tag 1.0.0 -branch main -file C:\Releases\1.0.0.zip
```

## 16. Downloading an Asset with Full GitHub URL
To download an asset from the release with the tag `1.0.0` in the repository `my-repo` to the path `C:\Downloads`, using the full GitHub URL:

```batch
nb.exe release_download -repo https://github.com/userName/my-repo -tag 1.0.0 -path C:\Downloads
```
An asset named `1.0.0.zip` will be downloaded to the specified path if it exists in the release.
