docs/installation.md, before:


To get started with `ntools`, you need to install the latest version of [64-bit Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win) on your machine, then follow these steps:

- Open a PowerShell in administrative mode.  By convention, two environment variables, `%DevDrive%='c:'` and `%MainDir%='source'` will be used through this document 
- Clone this repository to your local machine from the `%MainDir%` folder.
```cmd
cd c:\source
git clone https://github.com/naz-hage/ntools
```
- Change the PowerShell execution policy to allow the installation script to run. Run the following command:

```cmd
Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -Scope Process
```
    
This command will allow the installation script to run. Once the installation is complete, the execution policy will revert to its original state.


- Run the following command to install the Development tools:

```cmd
cd c:\source\ntools\DevSetup
.\install.ps1
```
- This command will install the Dotnet Core Desktop runtime and download the `ntools` from GitHub, installs the ntools package in the `%ProgramFiles%\Nbuild` folder, sets up the nTools development environment, adds the `%ProgramFiles%\Nbuild` will be added to the system path.  
- The `Install.ps1` script also sets up the following environment variables:
    - `%DevDrive%` is a string parameter that represents the drive where the development environment will be set up. It is not mandatory , and if it is not provided when the script is run, it will default to `C:`.
    - `%MainDir%` is also a string parameter that represents the main directory where the development environment will be set up. It is not mandatory, and if it is not provided when the script is run, it will default to `source`.

- If you prefer to use a different drive or directory, you can specify the `%DevDrive%` and `%MainDir%` parameters when running the script. For example, to install the development tools on the `D:` drive in the `Development` directory, run the following command:

```cmd
.\install.ps1 -DevDrive D: -MainDir Development
```

- After the installation is complete, check out the [nbuild.targets](./ntools/nbuild-targets.md) for more all the available targets, and navigate to [Usage](usage.md) to learn how to execute a build target.

ntools is now installed on your machine, and you can start using it to learn how to build and run [additional targets](usage.md). If you have any questions or encounter any issues during the installation process, please don't hesitate to write an an [issue](https://github.com/naz-hage/NTools/issues). We're here to help!

Commit message:

Remove the dependency on the $(DevDrive) and $(MainDir) environment variables (#57)
The code has undergone significant changes, primarily involving the removal of DevDrive and MainDir environment variables. 
- These variables are now dynamically calculated based on the MSBuildProjectDirectory property. 
- The install-ntools.ps1 script no longer requires these parameters, and the install.ps1 script has been refactored to no longer function as a cmdlet. 
- The Ntools version has been updated in the app-Ntools.json file, and the SolutionDir value in the common.targets file has been modified. 
- The workflow has been updated to allow manual triggers with the workflow_dispatch event and a new step to validate the build_type has been added. 
- The install-ntools.ps1 script has been modified to no longer require $DevDrive and $MainDir parameters and no longer sets the development environment variables. 
- The $(DevDrive) and $(MainDir) environment variables have been replaced with %MainDirectory% in various files. 
- The setup.md file now includes comprehensive instructions for setting up a new project with ntools, adding a new tool to a project, and understanding the requirements and functionalities of the nbuild.targets file. 
- The common.targets file has been updated to replace PowerShell commands with a ZipExe executable for creating and deploying a package. 
- A new file buildtypes.md has been added, describing the two predefined build types staging and production in ntools.

docs/installation.md, after:


To get started with `ntools`, you need to install the latest version of [64-bit Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win) on your machine, then follow these steps:

- Open a PowerShell in administrative mode.  Assume c:\source as directory `%MainDirectory%` which will be used through this document.
- Clone this repository to your local machine from the `%MainDirectory%` folder.
```powershell
cd c:\source
git clone https://github.com/naz-hage/ntools
```
- Change the PowerShell execution policy to allow the installation script to run. Run the following command:

```powershell
Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -Scope Process
```
    
This command will allow the installation script to run. Once the installation is complete, the execution policy will revert to its original state.


- Run the following command to install the ntools:

```powershell
cd c:\source\ntools\DevSetup
.\install.ps1
```
- This command will install the Dotnet Core Desktop runtime and download the `ntools` from GitHub, installs the ntools package in the `%ProgramFiles%\Nbuild` folder, sets up the nTools development environment, adds the `%ProgramFiles%\Nbuild` will be added to the system path.  

After the installation is complete, check out the [nbuild.targets](./ntools/nbuild-targets.md) for more all the available targets, and navigate to [Usage](usage.md) to learn how to execute a build target.

ntools is now installed on your machine, and you can start using it to learn how to build and run [additional targets](usage.md). If you have any questions or encounter any issues during the installation process, please don't hesitate to write an an [issue](https://github.com/naz-hage/NTools/issues). We're here to help!
