docs/usage.md, before:



Once Ntools is installed, Open a Developer Command prompt for Visual Studio 2022 and navigate to your solution folder (i.e. `c:\source\ntools`).  The [`nb.exe`](./ntools/nbuild.md) is the main executable for the Ntools.  The following are some examples of how to use the Ntools:

-   Build a solution: Compiles the solution in the solution directory

```cmd
nb.exe solution
```
- Clean a solution:  Deletes the release/Debug, bin and obj folders in the solution directory

```cmd
nb.exe clean
```
- Test solution: runs all the tests in the solution

```cmd
nb.exe test
```
- Create a stage release: Creates a stage build which includes the following steps:
    - Clean the solution
    - Build the solution
    - Run tests
    - Create a stage build
    - Publish the stage build
    - Create a zip file of the stage build file

```cmd
nb.exe stage
```
- Display available targets:  Lists all the available targets in the targets file
    
```cmd
nb.exe targets
```
- See the list of available targets at [Nbuild Targets](./ntools/nbuild-targets.md)

Commit message:

Add PowerShell script for artifact verification with detailed checks (#158)
Enhance MSBuild target system with code coverage, user-level PATH, and artifact verification

- Add comprehensive code coverage system with ReportGenerator integration and configurable filters
- Implement user-level PATH management removing admin requirements and improving security
- Create artifact verification framework with PowerShell-based validation scripts
- Enhance MSBuild target delegation with validation tools and backward compatibility
- Add new targets: COVERAGE, COVERAGE_SUMMARY, SMOKE_TEST, SMOKE_TEST_PWSH
- Update TEST target with conditional code coverage collection
- Migrate from Machine-level to User-level environment variable management
- Add TestMode protection to prevent PATH contamination during testing
- Upadre documentation for new features and migration guide
- Maintain 100% backward compatibility with existing projects

Files: Command.cs, common.targets, nbuild.targets, verification scripts, tests, docs

Co-authored-by: ahmdhjj <ahmadelhajj.dev@gmail.com>

docs/usage.md, after:



Once Ntools is installed, Open a Developer Command prompt for Visual Studio 2022 and navigate to your solution folder (i.e. `c:\source\ntools`).  The [`nb.exe`](./ntools/nbuild.md) is the main executable for the Ntools.  The following are some examples of how to use the Ntools:

-   Build a solution: Compiles the solution in the solution directory

```cmd
nb.exe solution
```
- Clean a solution:  Deletes the release/Debug, bin and obj folders in the solution directory

```cmd
nb.exe clean
```
- Test solution: runs all the tests in the solution with optional code coverage

```cmd
nb.exe test
```
- Create a stage release: Creates a stage build which includes the following steps:
    - Clean the solution
    - Build the solution
    - Run tests with code coverage
    - Generate coverage reports
    - Publish the stage build
    - Verify artifacts with smoke tests
    - Create a zip file of the stage build file

```cmd
nb.exe stage
```
- Display available targets:  Lists all the available targets in the targets file
    
```cmd
nb.exe targets
```

- See the complete list of available targets at [Nbuild Targets](./ntools/nbuild-targets.md)
- Learn more about code coverage at [Code Coverage](./ntools/code-coverage.md)
